Okay, so on the home page of the app,
we've got a big featured movie at the top.
And then we have three
carousels of trending movies,
movies that are now playing,
and movies that are upcoming.
So let's grab some data for that,
first of all, from the API.
To do that, we're gonna need to add
a page.js file with a load function.
And we're using page js instead of
page server js because the place
that we're gonna be able to get this
data from doesn't require any secrets,
there's no API key or authentication.
So we're gonna make requests directly from
the browser when we navigate client side.
So, for that reason, we're not
gonna have a server load function,
cuz we don't need to make a round trip
to our own server to get the data.
As well as making things faster,
that's gonna mean that our
application is cheaper to host.
So, create our load function.
And we're gonna grab the fetch helper
that we learned about earlier.
In fact,
let's make this page ts file instead so
that we can use TypeScript to make
our life a little bit easier.
And the place that we need to get
this data from is a version of
the movie database API that is hosted
by the tastejs.com organization.
So the base URL for our API calls is gonna
be https://api.movies.tastejs.com.
And to get the To get
the trending movies data,
we're gonna make a fetch call,
To that base,
followed by trending/movie/day.
That's gonna get the day's
trending movies.
And we'll use response.json
to get hold of that data.
This needs to be an async function so that
we can use await, so let's add that there
And now that we've done this
inside our page.svelte,
we can create a script lang = ts, so that
we use TypeScript and add export let data.
And if we hover over that data, we'll
see that we have a trending property,
although at the moment, it has an any
value, which is not much help.
If we're gonna be able to build this
app under the time constraints that
we're working under, then it would be
really helpful if TypeScript could
tell us what we're dealing with.
So at this point,
what I want you to do is open
frontend-masters-svelteflix.versel.app and
append the word just to the end of that.
Right, that's gonna give us
a TypeScript declaration file which
contains type information about all of the
responses from the API that we're gonna be
dealing with.
So just hit that raw button,
grab that whole thing, copy it.
And then inside your app, inside the lib
directory, we're gonna create a file,
types.d.ts, and
just gonna paste that whole thing.
We forgot the await before our fetch, I'll
add that to get rid of that red squiggly.
And when we're dealing with fetch,
TypeScript doesn't know what the data is,
so we have to tell TypeScript what
kind of thing we're dealing with.
So we're going to add an as
at the end of this, and
inside our types.dts we have
a bunch of different things.
But one of the things that we're gonna
be dealing with a lot is this movie list
interface.
This data that we're getting from this
endpoint is a promise of a movie list.
Actually no,
we need to put that down here.
And because we're awaiting it, it's
not a promise, it's just a movie list.
We need to import that from
our type declarations.
And now when we open our page.svelte,
hopefully, it's gonna tell us that
trending is a movie list, so
that makes our life a little bit easier.
Okay, so
we can add Top trending movies over here.
And then the first thing we'll
do is just have a look and
see what information we
have on that data object.
Open Dev Tools, open the Console.
You can see that we have
a bunch of trending results.
And we're gonna wanna grab
the first one of these and and
render the information therein.
It doesn't actually have everything that
we want for the big hero image at the top,
because we wanna grab a logo as well and
the logo is not in the list results.
So we're gonna need to make another fetch
call to get the full information about
the movie at the top of the trending list.
So back in our page.ts, We'll
grab the first movie and call it featured.
And now we're gonna make
another request to the API.
And this time,
the data that we're gonna get,
is/movie/featured.id.
And that's gonna be
a movie details object.
Okay, so if we now look in our DevTools
and see what's in the featured data.
It still doesn't have quite everything
that we need because we need to tell
the API that we wanna get
some additional information.
But before we get into that, all of this
fetch code is already getting me down.
There's so much duplication because,
first, you have to get the response and
then you have to get
the JSON from the response.
And it's just no fun.
So at this point, I'm gonna create
an API helper in my lib directory, and
we're gonna use that every time
we interact with the API instead.
So let's open source/lib,
add an api.ts file.
And we're gonna start moving
over some of that code.
We'll get that base value,
drop that in here,
and we'll export a get function
That takes the fetch
object from our event.
Need to give it a type.
The type of fetch is type
of global list fetch.
And then it's gonna take an endpoint,
which is a string.
And then we'll optionally
add some parameters,
Which is gonna be a record of strings.
And then inside here we can
make the actual fetch calls.
So we'll grab that, We'll replace this
with the endpoint that was passed in.
Need to make this an async function.
And we can return the JSON that
we got from that response.
Okay, so now we can replace
the existing calls to fetch in our load
function with our new API helper.
First, we import it.
Import * as api from $lib-api.
And we'll replace this
whole thing with const
trending = await api.get, pass in fetch.
And then we'll just grab
that endpoint there.
And we can delete all of that.
And we can delete this too.
Now a moment ago, I mentioned that we
don't yet have all the information.
The Movie Database API allows you to
make multiple requests in one go by
adding the append to results parameter.
And that looks like this,
append_to_results.
We can specify which pieces of
additional data we want to get
when we fetch a featured movie.
In particular, right now we
wanna get the images property.
All right, so
we're making a fetch to this endpoint and
we're passing in a parameter, we need
to do something with that parameter.
So we'll go back into our API module.
And we're gonna add a query
string parameter based on what
was passed in by creating a new,
URLSearchParams object.
URLSearchParams will take any object
that has a set of key value pairs,
and it will turn that into
a queryable search params
object that you can easily
turn into a string.
So, if you just add question mark and
then Q, that is now gonna be a URL
that reflects those parameters
in a fully URL encoded fashion.
So, if we set this up correctly, we're
now making a the full API call that is
gonna add all of the images to our
featured movie, append_to_response.
Okay, so I got this wrong,
it's actually not append_to_result,
it's append_to_response.
And now at long last we have
this images object inside
the the featured movie where
we can grab a backdrop and
we can grab a logo to put in our
Big Hero slot at the top there.